yo what up we are broadcasting live in a
suspicious salmon-colored shirt from the
edge of my kitchen sink or have just
been washing dishes on livestream
keeping it all the way real and this
video is gonna continue to keep it real
talking about an issue that's current
within the digital vegan demi-monde but
I'm talking about in a reasonably deep
way so this video will still be
meaningful if I come back and watch it
myself maybe 5 or 10 years now when I've
forgotten
hopefully forgotten the controversy at
the moment that Spurs me to make this
video
look god it's gonna kick this off with
two anecdotes one from my personal life
and one from my my professional life I
guess back when I was a scholar of
Buddhism I walked into a room in a
reasonably ostentatious Buddhist temple
in Sri Lanka and there was a younger
monk attending on an older monk who was
more or less on his deathbed so this was
an August respected and revered senior
Buddhist monk expected to die
I don't know within days or weeks but
obviously his physical health was
deteriorating and they assumed his
mental health was deteriorating as well
and there was the monk I walked in the
door with who was more or less like my
interpreter I wouldn't have been able to
walk into that room and that Buddhist
temples at him standing next to me he
vouched for me as a as a Buddhist
scholar if you like anyway so the monk
was hoping I would talk to this elder
monk about scholarship and translation
and research and handwritten Pali
manuscripts the type of type of thing I
was doing and you know I was also doing
history in politics and slavery and
revolution and all kinds of other stuff
but that's outside the scope of this
video and this monk is overwhelmed with
emotion and he's talking about a
specific situation from World War two in
very passionate tones and everybody else
in the room except me thinks that he's
insane
it was a really memorable moment in a
really strange scenario he was talking
about an impossible to summarize complex
political situation that involves Sri
Lanka and Japan and of course the
broader conflict between the British
Empire and the Nazis to simplify
slightly and you know he was kind of
half weeping as he was talking about it
and evidently he was there and he was
involved and I didn't get the whole
story and I sat down with his but it's
not gonna held his hand and I looked in
his eyes and because of the cultural
context of Buddhism everyone else in the
room just assumes I'm doing the
compassionate thing and like pretending
to understand what this guy was talking
about but I knew the history I knew that
what he was saying was coherent and
meaningful and was about a specific
historical situation and everybody else
in the room thought that this guy was
lying there on his deathbed and was
losing his marbles that he was yeah I
remember one of the monks used exactly
that phrase to me he said oh it's such a
shame you know this formally respected
and revered buddhist monk he's he's
losing his marbles everyone else thought
this guy was ranting incoherently just
because they didn't know the context
ultimately the political content
although this guy was tied one that was
rushed out of the room but the way they
all thought it was very you know pious
of me to sit down and hold this guy's
hand low to his eyes but I really knew
what he was talking about I knew that he
wasn't crazy
and I never quite learned what his role
was in that history he was old enough he
was alive during World War two and you
know he was involved in that situation
which is why he was so overwhelmed with
emotion about it and he was wanting to
pass on you know before he died some
details I think not just about the
events themselves but also vote the
religious ceremonies where they got
together kind of the Japanese and Sri
Lankans sides at the end of the war I
think to reflect on what happened and
why
so anyway
the perception of this man as insane
haunted me everybody in the room is
being reasonable and well-intentioned
and even ostentatiously compassionate
but in fact they're judging this guy is
insane quite wrongly and dismissing what
he had to say and what he had to say I
had some real importance now just within
the last few days I've been taking care
of my daughter who is 4 years old around
the clock I only have custody for 15
days but for these 15 days I'm spending
as much time as possible and a couple of
times my daughter has said things to me
where in context I I I just didn't know
what she was talking about and then a
few hours later or a few days later she
puts on some TV show she watches
regularly and suddenly it clicks that
what she's saying wasn't crazy she was
discussing a situation in some TV show
she watch watches you know a TV show for
kids but when she was telling it to me
in the kind of slightly garbled way that
four-year-olds talk I had no idea what
she was talking about and it seemed like
nonsense or it seemed crazy to give one
example you would assume you guys
probably relate to I remember she was
talking to me about imagination and she
asked me these are it's almost a direct
quote when I use my imagination do I use
a trolley what and you know like try to
be nice to my daughter and I said well
you know where I live in Canada we don't
have a trolley and where I live in China
we don't have a trolley evening and she
said no no this wasn't what you meant so
later I sat with her and we watched this
TV show of Mister Rogers neighborhood
it's a classic TV show for kids and I
realized oh okay this is what you met I
had watched that show when I was a child
decades ago and I'd forgotten right when
you use your imagination
do you use strong okay it's disturbing
to me to see people on the internet with
absolutely no humor and no detachment
and no compassion judging one another as
sane and insane and even someone as
despicable as durianrider I have stood
up in the past this is the origin of my
conflicts with vegan cheetah was the
back when vegan cheetah was making
reckless accusations against durianrider
I stood up and said no that's wrong
that's inappropriate I'm not just
standing up against defamation because I
don't want to be defamed myself I don't
want anyone to face this kind of
defamation and slander not even during
Ryder he doesn't deserve that and I'm
not comfortable with people saying that
during Ryder was a narcissist so that
during Ryder is insane in the in the
reckless way that they do you know
there's a famous line from Chris Rock
famous to me Chris Rock is a comedian
Chris Rock stood up on stage one time
and said you know people go around
saying life is short life is short no
it's not life is long especially when
you make the wrong choices and you know
a lot of people it's really easy to
perceive them as insane when the truth
is they're just somebody who's made some
bad choices and maybe they're still
making bad choices now maybe they're
making bad choices again and again but
for an outsider looking in it's really
easy to perceive bad choices as insanity
and there are two very different things
I see people judging durianrider
as a narcissist as having NPD
narcissistic personality disorder while
ignoring all the evidence about what
kind of sanity and what kind of insanity
he displays we have videotape evidence
joining us and while ignoring you know
the very real record of his own
experience with the psychiatric
establishment
now during Ryder lies about many things
but to give you an example there
writer said that when he was still very
young doctors told his parents that they
believed he was a compulsive liar or a
pathological liar as ever call I heard
during writers say that in his interview
with rich role which role has a podcast
or EAG Beauty miner during writer has
talked about the psychiatric and
psychological examinations he underwent
as part of a court case which I believe
had to deal with liability and
disability following a car accident or
an accident with a truck he's described
that at length so if anyone making these
videos if you sincerely believe during
Ryder had MPD nurses pronounced and
there's the nurses to personality
disorder as a specific condition why was
he not diagnosed with it and any of
these times and in the other hand why do
we have so many plausible suggestions
for what's wrong with him from real
allegedly real reportedly according to
him real psychiatric evaluations he's
undergone which did diagnosed him with
having very serious psychological
problems very serious psychiatric
disorders but not this one not MPD right
so there's a lot of wishful thinking
going on here and it's disturbing to me
to see again I don't want anyone to be
slandered I didn't defend myself so that
people will turn around and slander
during write it this way I really you
know it's really not cool to me um and
I've seen videotape of durianrider doing
things if you really understand NPD if
you really understand our system force
no disorder if you really known people
diagnosed the condition who really have
that condition then for example when you
see durianrider
sitting in front of a live audience
which i've seen and taking questions and
taking criticism unexpected and push
prism in the manner that he does it's
impossible for me believe watching that
videotape
there is real counter evidence that he
does not have NPD let me tell you
something guys you can meet someone who
is a bulimic and never know they're a
bulimic you know see no signs of it in
there
behavior because the nature of bulimia
is a disorder that can be private it can
be personal it can be one person alone
in the bathroom after they de miel etc
there are many many psychological and
psychiatric conditions that are not
evident in face to face shallow
interactions people of this kind NPD is
not one of them
NPD is a behavioral disorder it's a
personality disorder of face to face
behavior between people that's exactly
what people with NPD have the most
problem with right MPD is a very very
serious disorder and if you don't know
what it is and how it operates
but you meet someone and interact with
them face to face who has a disorder you
would at the very least get the sense
that there's something very seriously
wrong with them and meanwhile people
with the condition often not always but
often can have successful careers as
computer programmers or lawyers doing
all kinds of work provided that the core
of the work they can do alone alone in a
cubicle alone at their cottage there
people with MPD very often alternate
between seeking the company of others
the adulation of others the approval of
others the ego validation of others and
running away to be isolated and that is
partly because they feel and with great
sorrow people with MPD really do feel
the indifference and even boredom and
disapproval of those around them when
people fail to give them the kind of
validation and gratification there you
see I don't see progress for the vegan
movement in switching from the kind of
slander the durianrider used to direct
against others to the kind of slander
I now see directed against the writer
that's not progress that's not why I had
my fundraiser and at my legal case
progress is if we progress beyond this
kind of slander entirely
um it's impossible for me to verify the
honesty of anything during writer says
because he's lied about many many things
but so far as I know what he has said
about his own psychiatric diagnosis for
this way I take it seriously he's talked
about his own experiences with
psychiatrists and psychotherapists and
so on and I've always said it's strange
to me that his followers don't just take
that more seriously and whether you
react with compassion or contempt is up
to you but there's no point constructing
new fables or new slander or new anyone
no against these people it's not good
for me it's not good for you it's not
good for veganism etc um I have brothers
my father had a lot of kids I have
brothers and half-brothers what have you
[Music]
who just made terrible choices with
their lives
a lot of those choices are invisible in
our culture in our society
I have several brothers who from my
perspective I would consider to be
alcoholics I think within Canada or
within England they're not considered
alcoholics because a very high level of
drinking is considered acceptable or
invisible you know people make bad
choices life is long especially when you
make the wrong choices it's really
really easy to perceive someone else's
choices from the outside without
understanding the context of that
understand the politics understanding
the other options they had it's really
easy to perceive that as insanity
I do think insanity is a problem in the
movement I've made myself very unpopular
by talking about how important it is
that we work with people in politics who
are really reliable who are really sane
that we're honest with ourselves we
don't dismiss the significance of
psychiatric problems when we're choosing
who are our allies who are our
colleagues in the movement soon but in
the same way that I once sat down in
that room with that Buddhist monk and
everyone else perceived this guy is
insane
you've gotta treat people with enough
detachment compassion insight just
patience just hearing their side of the
story you know it's it's skepticism of
another kind to say well am i yet at the
point where I can judge whether this
person is sane or insane am i yet at the
point where I can judge why did they
make the bad choices that they've made
it sometimes people make bad choices for
good reasons sometimes they make bad
choices for reasons that make sense to
themselves and themselves alone and
sometimes they make bad choices for no
good reason at all but none of those
things makes you insane
insanity is something very different and
a specific diagnosis like narcissistic
personality disorder is something very
different again